{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red16\green19\blue26;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww15400\viewh15140\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Machine Learning Pirate\

\fs56 \

\fs28 Objective
\fs42 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa140

\b0\fs28 \cf2 This interview is meant to assess the candidate's machine learning skills. We're looking for someone who could be a machine learning expert in a team such as Newsfeed Ranking, Ads Optimization or Search, or perhaps be the only machine learning person on a smaller project. In particular, we want to know:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa140

\b \cf2 Can they understand machine learning algorithms at the level you would expect from a colleague in a machine learning conference?
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 They may not be expert in your subfield, but if you explain your project they should be able to understand, criticize the approach, propose variants, ask good questions, relate the algorithm to other known techniques.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa140

\b \cf2 Would they detect flaws in our machine learning systems?
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 Are they the kind of person who would look at our system and realize on their own that, say, our training data is biased in some way, or that we're overfitting, or that a different objective function or performance metric would be better? Could they debug their own ML system?\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa140

\b \cf2 Would they be able to contribute machine learning improvements to a project at Facebook?
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 Could they start a new machine learning project like, say, a topic model for commenters of a post, or collaborative filtering for ads, or a hidden Markov model for user behavior, or an improvement to our training method, or something similar closer to their area? Could they implement a technique from a paper?\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa140

\b \cf2 How big is their ML tool set, are they resourceful?
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 Can they frame a product goal as a machine learning problem, see what could be used as training data and as objective to optimize? Can they see multiple ways that a problem can be framed? If you add a twist to your question, can they adapt? Can they propose something in most situations, even just a very simple baseline? Are they familiar with offline evaluation metrics? A/B testing?\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa140

\b \cf2 Are they good at feature engineering?
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 Can they identify the key features for a particular application? Can they describe them in detail, produce a formula? Are these appropriately normalized if needed? Can they see that some features would have too little data? Can they decide how to encode their features (dense or sparse, binary or real value, bucketing...)? Describe what data needs to be stored?\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa140

\b \cf2 Do they have good product sense?
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 Overlaps with feature engineering, but distinct. Can they see how machine learning fits into the larger product? Can they use ML results effectively within a complex ranking system such as search or newsfeed? For example, in Newsfeed, there are many product behaviors such as pacing, resurfacing unseen or updated stories, and how to value different types of conversions which operate on top of the ML predictions. These types of questions often distinguish new grads from people with industry experience.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa140

\b \cf2 Do they exhibit mastery?
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 Can they go into specifics, or do they stay at a hand-wavy level? Do they lead the discussion, or do you have to give them hints throughout? Do they suggest something you've never thought of?\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa140
\cf2 As a bonus, or as a fallback:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa140

\b \cf2 Can they build a large ML system?
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 Can they assess how much storage they need for features, and how to store them so they are accessible by the algorithm? Have they installed machine learning software, do they have a sense of how fast it trains, how much data it can handle? How big will their model be? How to store models efficiently and how can we run many experiments at the same time? It can become a Systems pirate.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa140
\cf2 Especially for fresh PhDs, and although it should be addressed in a PhD Jedi, we also want to know:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa140

\b \cf2 Are they solid in their area of expertise?
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 If asked they should be able to describe clearly the core methods of their field and answer questions about their work easily. Do they understand what direction their field is currently going? What recent techniques are promising? Do they have ideas of what they would like to work on, why, and how it addresses current limitations of their field?\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360

\f1\fs26 \cf2 \
}